Gwenevere Abriel: Good morning.
Christina haro: Good morning. How are you
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's check audio and video is everything in sync my audio and
Christina haro: Video I put it on. Do Not Disturb so I think we're okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent. Well, it's good to see you. It's been a minute.
Christina haro: It's been a minute. How's everything will be there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can't complain. I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I can't complain. I feel lucky to be working at all.
Christina haro: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: Staying staying as much gratitude, as I can.
Gwenevere Abriel: But sure have been thinking about you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you know, just this concerned with
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: A losing a best friend is a sometimes I don't know. It's like our chosen family almost
Gwenevere Abriel: Closer than our blood.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'd wondered how you are doing around that and I know your daughter was going to come is that
Christina haro: I'm actually pick her up later this evening.
Wow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Christina haro: She was she I probably won't be living with me because my son got her a mobile home.
Christina haro: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. So why is intense.
Though
Gwenevere Abriel: And her daughters, with her.
Christina haro: Yeah okay kiddos. Yeah.
Right. Beautiful.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I do need to review some treatment goals with you that you had set spend a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: They might tie in well let's just see
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to learn. I want to be happy and not bring baggage was a goal of yours, but I had encouraged with some belly breathing grounding in the five senses.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just make a little note today about how you're doing as far as using remembering emotional regulation skills, how do you think you're doing with that.
Christina haro: I think I'm doing good. Like, especially with my son and the breathing really helps me
Christina haro: Okay, hopefully that'll help me with my daughter when she gets me stress.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, let's see. Was it a number of times it doesn't. I didn't say, well, this one just says learn it. So did I teach you the grounding in the five senses, already I believe I did.
Christina haro: Yeah, we went. We went over it. Um,
Christina haro: Can we kind of review it a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, no problem. So let's see, that is that. So let's say you're having
Gwenevere Abriel: So right now you think of maybe something a little bit stressful. That might might be a little upsetting for you. Maybe not at 10 out of 10 but maybe at about a five.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just notice. Notice how your body responds to it, maybe something gets tighter sort of heavier.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so seeing
Christina haro: I think my son.
Christina haro: Is yeah my son.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, last one. So what you're doing is you're you're aware of a stress, you're, you're thinking of something and your body's responding to it. So this grounding in the five senses, which I'll bring up the poster again.
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll do it together.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can also, if you wanted to have a visual. This is kind of nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: So this is what it is. It's basically if you're using. If you're experiencing panic or when you need to stay calm or anytime you are starting to feel sort of disconnected from your body.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is a way for you to get grounded back into the body.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the way it's written is you look at
Gwenevere Abriel: Five things you see four things you feel meaning touch tactile that's with your, your fingers. Three things you're here, two things you smell. And one thing it taste.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're more than welcome to do it the way this is written, I teach it differently.
Gwenevere Abriel: The reason why I teach it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where I do as many things as I can describe
Gwenevere Abriel: With adjectives.
Gwenevere Abriel: With one thing instead of looking around the room and naming you know candle plant mirror couch like instead of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I find my my approach takes more concentration, which is what you want, want to get out if the stressful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thought content. So for me the way I teach it, it takes more concentration and so I kind of think it's more effective, but that might not be true for you. So, you know, go for it. Maybe try it both ways. So this is the way I would teach it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is this. So what I want you to do is many
Gwenevere Abriel: Adjectives as you can. In other words, colors, shapes angled shadows, just anything you see
Christina haro: Okay.
Christina haro: So it's pink, blue some orange.
Christina haro: It's, it's got some some little stuff on there got leaves. It's got hearts.
Christina haro: Kind of bumpy
Christina haro: Feels a little round probably
Christina haro: As a flat into it.
Christina haro: It hasn't. Yeah, it has a hole in it. So you stick your hand in there. It's got colors on the inside. Also,
Christina haro: I'm a little bumpy
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now close your eyes and just listen.
Gwenevere Abriel: For all sounds around you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just see if you can describe them.
Christina haro: I can hear cars. I can hear birds. I can actually hear my dog barking.
Christina haro: You're a car honking
Gwenevere Abriel: And so now with your hand just take something in your hand and just sort of describe kind of hand if you have something with some interesting
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Very nice just describe what you feel.
It.
Christina haro: Is and it's got
Christina haro: A wire thing on the end.
Christina haro: Um, it's a little he it's big. It's big.
Gwenevere Abriel: About the temperature. What's the temperature
Christina haro: Cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, good. And now, see if you can notice a smell in the air.
Christina haro: I'm like a small coffee at this my waffles because I thought I had earlier, um,
Christina haro: I can actually smell the breeze for this great simple freeze earlier.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about how your T shirt to bring that one closer. Bring your shirt to you kind of see what's what's there.
Christina haro: About perfume.
Uh huh.
Christina haro: I can actually use about coffee. Maybe it's not on I feared, but it's not mocking
Gwenevere Abriel: And now, see if you're aware of a taste in your mouth.
Christina haro: Hockey
Christina haro: Actually
Christina haro: To face.
Gwenevere Abriel: A little bit meant left in there, huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Huh. So now, open your eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And did you notice that your stress level went down your distress in the body from where you started.
Christina haro: Yes.
Christina haro: You forget a little calmer.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Did you forget to sit there and think about your son. It took focus and that's why this this way I do it when you have to come up with as many as you can.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, it's, it's, it's kind of like bent and angled and curvy and orange and blob and
Gwenevere Abriel: melty and pink and blue and orange and leaf and hard and blended and lines and ridges and writing you just trying so hard to give as many as you can. It's that effort and concentration
Gwenevere Abriel: It can pull you out of the negative neural network. It's your mind is busy in yourself. That's, that's why that one so effective.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it can bring you back into your body. If you're noticing. Let's say you're starting to associate, meaning you're starting to go a little spaced out or unconscious
Gwenevere Abriel: This is a way to get back into the body, especially with with the tactile or you're feeling like this would have been a great one for feeling to, you know, there's lots of little bumps on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: For some people, let's say they're going to a job interview, they're nervous about they might put something that has a lot of feeling in it and they might keep it in their pocket.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just sort of focus on that to pull their mind away from the what ifs in their head.
Gwenevere Abriel: So nice review a really, really handy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Regulations regulation technique and of course you're doing the
Gwenevere Abriel: belly breathing inhaling for four seconds into the lower abdomen and holding in the next hailing for four seconds and holding it out and then inhaling into the lower belly for four seconds. That's the one you're doing or you kind of adapted your own
Christina haro: So that's the one I'm doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Cool. Excellent. Okay, so let me just see this one was just learning it then you've got accomplish that goal, which I think you have, I think we can close this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Chief
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Next one we have y'all.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want a job. I know that's not an easy thing wasn't easy before it ain't easy now.
Christina haro: Oh, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: I, it doesn't mean that you aren't still thinking about is still doing something around it. So it's this is your goal, not mine. Remember, so pressure for me. But let me write a little statement about that goal. And let's just sort of market and time. What do you want me to write all
Christina haro: Well, I'm still looking so hopefully here in a couple of weeks when everything opens up and you know, start opening up slowly. I can, you know, find something
Gwenevere Abriel: And there was something, is it really just sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: That in working at a hotel is kind of dissolved at this point. Yeah. Okay. All right. When everything opens up hopefully I can find something. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and then spirituality. You know, when you think about spirituality. As you identify it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you maybe give me an example of when maybe spirituality has been available to support in some way or has helped you cope in your recovery.
Christina haro: Up before this happened. I had gone to church, a couple of times I had started slowly connecting back to my church, but then everything closed. So really what I've been doing is just watching it, you know, on TV since they run it on TV. And then, um, you know, I just
Christina haro: Yeah, getting back to my prayers and reading the Bible, a little bit actually.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, that's in general. Has there been a time when you've actually gone to that when you were having thoughts of distress.
Christina haro: Um, yes. In fact, like a couple weeks when, um, I just had to kind of isolate myself. I'm in my room. I had a lot of things going on, especially with my son. So I just went in there and prayed.
Christina haro: Yeah. What it's just been a big thing. It's been a little bit of everything lately with me. Um, I sent had a really good friend that actually just lived on the street and
Christina haro: got arrested for triple murder.
Christina haro: And, you know, the kid was actually the kid was always here in my house.
Christina haro: So it was kind of painful and I had just seen him like two days before that, because I've given him a birthday party with some money.
Christina haro: And I told him. Happy birthday, and then like three days later he was arrested for murder. So that kind of hurt me. I did a lot of crying and praying and
Christina haro: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's that kind of the same period, because I was watching you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Withdraw from bright heart a little too. And I know you're telling me this and this. But usually I can see it. I can see when people are pulling back
Gwenevere Abriel: Wonder why is it because he didn't want to share those things you didn't have it all kind of figured out or or maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: It was
Christina haro: Just a little bit of everything. It's like, is it was just like one thing after the other. It was like just so much. I was like, you know, no. You know, it was just
Christina haro: I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I do notice and I invite you, there's there's quite a few of you. In fact, most that thinks that they have to show up with particular way in group you work really hard to be sunny and you share your beautiful smile with us, which you truly don't have to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know show up as a taker where you take, take, and say, I need a FM minute I need a minute I am overwhelmed. This is too much. I'm glad I'm showing up here, all you know that
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you're going to feel like you're suffering alone in that room isolating it's next level misery Christina.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I want to be a part of that support for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is just show up and then the momentum of being there. You just, you just let it flow like maybe it's 10 minutes in or half hour in are almost right at the end and
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you might say, you know, I haven't wanted to share. But now I do and just having a really rough time and maybe that's all you share maybe you just say I need to pass today, but that's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: It just does something to us when we think we have to do this alone.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I mean, right now it's just, we've got to use the resources we have to talk and at least show our faces and feel known
Gwenevere Abriel: She's terribly sorry that's heartbreaking.
Christina haro: You know, the sad thing is that this kid didn't even kill anybody. Yes, he was there. And yes, that day that all that happened. He
Christina haro: Actually came over here is, you know, scared, but didn't tell me what was going on. I wish I would have known.
Christina haro: I would have taken them straight to the police department so he could leave, you know, but instead of doing that, he decided to leave from here in Ohio, and they found it interesting for murder because he was scared they're gonna kill him.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, Christina.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can tell you're feeling the fear of that young man.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just all that he has ahead of him.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's it's his to face.
Gwenevere Abriel: Come back. Go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Back to you. Okay, come back to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just sort of turn your attention to the things that you want to be today, you know, the kind of woman, you want to be how you want to feel today.
Gwenevere Abriel: You touched into compassion and empathy deeply just now.
Gwenevere Abriel: The sorrow of wrongful accusation.
Gwenevere Abriel: But something you know very well.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's definitely given me the chills, just to, to think about that. And there are a lot of those those folks in this program where they've been incarcerated and it wasn't anything they did.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a pretty broken so
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you want to share more about the other things going on.
Christina haro: Well, then my granddad died.
Christina haro: I have been friends with this man three years and you know I was friends actually with him and his wife and, you know, they always opened up their home to me. And then she died.
Christina haro: Three years ago, and I hope to take care over and then he
Christina haro: He had called me.
Christina haro: And I told him I would go see him and i didn't i didn't i didn't go I Tomoko. See you tomorrow. And I didn't go then next morning. I'm a friend of his, called me and told me that it's not over there.
Christina haro: And he was thrown on the floor and I just he had had a he had a heart attack, basically. So then they took him to the hospital. Of course, I couldn't see him and
Christina haro: They let him out, but he had a bad heart. He died at home. So I never even got to go see him.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not part of why that hurt so badly.
Because
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't know those things do we, we don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you gonna miss most about him.
Christina haro: Showing me about football.
Christina haro: Football. Football, but when I go over there. We are always watching football and told me what this year, he says, if there's a, you know, the football starts, you know, God willing, if everything goes back to normal. He says in you will be sitting here watching football.
Christina haro: And he started telling me a lot about football. So, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: OK, so now that's with you, you have someone that's really kind of touched you. And when that season comes back and we're all sort of settling back into our normal again. You can remember him there.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: you're grieving a lot. It's just so much to grieve all at once.
Gwenevere Abriel: There any other mixture of feelings like maybe with what's going on with your son. Is there a mixture of feelings with him.
Christina haro: Well, um,
Christina haro: Yeah, I was pretty upset with him when all this happened because you know i know he didn't hang around with that group people that I knew you know
Christina haro: His friend had, you know, other sets of friends to hang around with. So, you know, but you know, I was kind of so my son because
Christina haro: I tell them. So, you know, what are you doing out there. I told her you know you could have been you. And he says, no money. So you don't understand. He says those people that he was with were part of my friends, he says, he says, I don't even really know those people
Christina haro: So I was pretty upset with him. You know, I
Christina haro: Worry I worry know that that adds to my you know List of worries with him because
Gwenevere Abriel: Does it seem like he's honoring that and he's coming home.
Christina haro: at a reasonable hour no more.
Christina haro: Yeah, he's been home where he hasn't really gone anywhere so
Christina haro: Some, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did that turn into an event where there was arguing yelling any of that.
Christina haro: No, no, actually we had. We know we had a couple of good talks, nice and quiet. You know, we sat down and talked and
Christina haro: You know, he agreed with me that
Christina haro: You know,
Christina haro: That I had a reason to worry, not because he gave me reasons but because, you know, me being a mom, you know, he told me he's I understand where you're coming from. He says, but
Christina haro: He says the people that he was hanging around with me. So I didn't even know them. He says, so whatever he did. He says, I don't even know.
When he had
Christina haro: When
Gwenevere Abriel: He does go out. What we're really going on.
Christina haro: Here. Yeah. Yeah, as a best friend that
Christina haro: He usually hangs around with but you know this kid was our neighbor, you know, as a kid. They went to school with, you know, as a kid I started regularly that would stop by.
Christina haro: That was the hard part about it. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You Have you had a chance to talk to his family.
Christina haro: No, I haven't. But he went over there and he talked to them. Yeah, he told them what happened. He told them that you know his friend.
Christina haro: Came over here that that next day I told him what happened and told it just told him you know that they're getting him a really good lawyer, but there were using all his college fun
Christina haro: We had a really good college fun for him to the supposedly this kid was a had an IQ of a genius is a really smart kid.
Yeah.
Christina haro: So they had a setup. All done. Let me get a Kleenex
Christina haro: So they had him a really good college fund, because the dad had won a lawsuit and set up set him up a really good college fund if he was the oldest of the kids so he he taught my son, I'm
Christina haro: I used to call it fun and gotten my really good lawyers. So, you know, this is the way it looks. Now he says he's not looking to do more than they dropped the murder charges and got him on conspiracy
Christina haro: Okay, so it looks like a might be able to get it down to 10 years instead of, you know, doing life or anything else but still you know 10 years
Christina haro: Little boy just turned 18 I
Christina haro: Know that's hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I hope there's an even better outcome.
Christina haro: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: I've noticed that that
Christina haro: You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know we lose inventions, we lose you know our civilization moving forward. I think they're all incarcerated.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, we're we're missing out on some really great minds and it looks like so much of it is just opportunity and particular neighborhoods. It's just there's just no opportunity, you know, and then you end up getting pulled into a gang life that once you're in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard for people to get out. It's hard to see.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I kind of what his story was
Christina haro: Yeah. And then my son tells me you know as smart as this kid was he says, Why does my friend was
Christina haro: Seeing you at all. He says he was doing everybody's taxes and stuff. He was that he was just a very smart guy. He says he had no common sense. It says, I always told him. What are you doing, you know, local you're hanging around with it says he had no common sense whatsoever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, different parts of the brain. He's got good good left brain nice storage of knowledge, but the emotional processing and that frontal frontal lobe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's the part that your son's brain isn't done grow and either. So that's why when when you're please be home at this time, keep it up because that part won't come online for years, still
Gwenevere Abriel: I wish it was 18 but it's not
Christina haro: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let's keep keep going here. I made a little note about this piece I want to feel normal and work and not dependent on drugs.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you've been faced with a lot of adversity. Have there been times when you've either taken a short acting pill maybe drank or taken more medication and is prescribed
Christina haro: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at you.
Christina haro: I just basically just
Christina haro: I just locked myself in my room and you know put on, I put on the, you know what I did I put on sad movies. So I could cry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah I know, right.
Christina haro: I know I felt like I couldn't cry or for a while because I was by myself. I don't know. So I decided to put out those side, you know, movies or something where I could cry and let it out and then I tested and I talked to my mom and I said, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Christina haro: We were here.
Christina haro: You know,
Christina haro: This is hard, you know,
Christina haro: I just sat there for a little bit. I talked to my mom and I talked to
Christina haro: Describe. You know, I just
Christina haro: For a few days and then after a while. I started feeling better. You know, I started looking at it this way. Oh, my friend. What he was sick, sick from his heart and a lot of other stuff, you know,
Christina haro: Wasn't suffering anymore because he's always tired, he couldn't walk around and I I told myself, you know, he's in a better place. And I felt better about that one. But then I started thinking about, you know, our little friend and you know my son's friends and they said, well,
Christina haro: You know, hopefully that will help him and he won't be in there that long. You know, you might still, you know, have time to do something with himself. You know, he gets out early.
Christina haro: Look at the bright side on both on both ends.
Christina haro: That made me feel better, you know,
Christina haro: And then I you know I thought about my assessment and I kept thinking, well, you know, maybe, maybe this was the, you know,
Christina haro: A way for God to to you know put him somewhere at least he's you know he's not out here on the streets and, you know, maybe it was for the best. You won't get killed up there in the streets, you know, hopefully he's okay and do
Christina haro: As possible.
Christina haro: He was hanging around with some really bad people Mason said so.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm, I'm looking at your we were talking about how you managed to cope through and it does sound. Yeah, what you did is instead of
Gwenevere Abriel: Escaping you actually met those feelings head on, you gave yourself a chance to actually cry and those sad movies are a great way to get those going
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm looking in the prescription. I don't know. I don't quite understand why do you have your, your bottle. Your by of sub
Christina haro: Yeah. Well, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at it.
Christina haro: Give me a second.
Christina haro: Okay.
Christina haro: What were you looking at
Gwenevere Abriel: So I didn't understand the
Gwenevere Abriel: The dose.
Gwenevere Abriel: What is it read what's the dosage on the bottle.
Christina haro: And I grabbed the wrong one. We're in April. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, bartered on Friday. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, he did two of them. That's confusing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Into orders.
Christina haro: Or
Gwenevere Abriel: So yeah, which is there should be one dated for 24 and I don't know if you picked up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um,
Christina haro: Yeah, I picked up the 424
Gwenevere Abriel: Which on eubank
Christina haro: No. Okay. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay, yeah. So that's what's confusing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll look into this
Christina haro: Kind of check it out and send it to another pharmacy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna I'm addressing the doc here.
Gwenevere Abriel: gotta write him.
Christina haro: Yeah, see, I picked up the one that says, For 24 you see that
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Christina haro: And he only gave me five or
Gwenevere Abriel: What was the milligrams
Christina haro: Of to one day.
Christina haro: So he gave me five of those for just two days until I see you with us today.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll be right back. I gotta go walk outside
Christina haro: That's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so let's see.
Christina haro: Yeah. Cuz remember he he put it.
Christina haro: In he wasn't going to prescribe me any until I saw you today. So he just gave me for two days.
Gwenevere Abriel: See
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm acting notes.
Christina haro: Yeah. So you're telling me that I did the right thing with
Christina haro: myself cry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Christina haro: I did a lot of crying. Yeah, I finally let it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you mentioned also that you went and you did do a letter to your mother and that felt like it had a meaningful impact.
Christina haro: Yeah.
Christina haro: I
Christina haro: I actually wrote a letter to my mom and then I actually went to my room and read it to my mom, I read it to her I you know I just sat there and I figured I'd read it to her and then I
Christina haro: I burned it
Christina haro: Yeah, I was. I was gonna, I was gonna let it off in the balloon.
Christina haro: But then I said, I felt kind of weird because you know if it lands like to my neighbors or something. And I don't know, I just didn't want them to think I was a cuckoo or something, you know, I said no offering it, it's good.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what was that like to go through that sort of ceremony.
Christina haro: It felt like
Christina haro: It felt like I was
Christina haro: Like I was
Christina haro: I don't know how to explain it. I
Christina haro: I kind of felt like I was talking to her, and I was telling her goodbye.
Christina haro: That's what I thought.
Christina haro: I don't know if I like, I don't know. I don't know how to explain it to you. But that's how it felt.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, like I missed it somehow.
Christina haro: To it out.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what those letters can be useful for
Gwenevere Abriel: Us.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it doesn't sound like there was. Will you tell me. Was there a mixture of the anger leftover or does that seem like
Gwenevere Abriel: You're kind of working that through here with me and we'll
Awesome.
Christina haro: Yeah, I think.
Christina haro: I think that the more I thought about it, the better. I feel because I've really never talked to anybody about this stuff other than my kids. They know some about it but not too much.
Gwenevere Abriel: And which brings us to this last goal here which is I want to be happy and not bring baggage. I think that's what you're talking about is is bring that baggage into the relationships.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like with your son, and with your daughters.
Gwenevere Abriel: Could you share a little about maybe your concerns.
Me media people
Christina haro: Yeah, a lot of that stuff that I tell you about baggage is not so much. I think it does have a lot to do with my mom.
Christina haro: In a way, because I connected to. I told you my first has been used to abuse me a lot. He was very abusive and, you know, I kind of blame my mom for it.
Christina haro: Because I don't blame her for the situation. I got myself into. But I was only 18 years old when I met this mess.
Christina haro: And yet, when I tried to go home and you know I don't know if my daughter came home or beat up. I think I would probably be very upset. I would probably kill somebody if they hurt my kids like that, but my mom, instead of being angry.
Christina haro: She invited him over for dinner.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you need to hear how how totally inappropriate that is
Gwenevere Abriel: That that was a failure on your mom's part that wish you'd have done has been enraged called the police and never let you see him again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly protected you
Christina haro: Do it. She invited him over for dinner, not just once a few times.
Gwenevere Abriel: So confusing for
Christina haro: A living sitting there, sitting there quiet evening, you know, no beat up a little
Christina haro: Bit you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know it's unacceptable.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the park. Christina I worry that you haven't given yourself a chance to be mad about
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the one I worry
Gwenevere Abriel: Because that message that gets sent to you that this is this is how you get love this you compromise what you believe in. And what is right for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you knew you knew that was wrong and you needed your mom to tell you this is wrong.
Christina haro: So that's the bad good don't talk about, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, they're connected, it's not
Gwenevere Abriel: Your
Gwenevere Abriel: Hello.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that letter you wrote was it just
Gwenevere Abriel: Sweetness and gratitude or did you let out some of the resentment.
Christina haro: I know it wasn't sweetness and it was, you know,
Christina haro: It was
Christina haro: Like me configure a calendar. Why did you do this. Why did you do that, you know, I never understood why you did that, you know, why did that to me.
Christina haro: It wasn't a sweet letter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Part of me kind of pleased you know you got a chance to
Gwenevere Abriel: Set it straight, not your job to punish or forgive right that's
Gwenevere Abriel: That's God's job.
Gwenevere Abriel: But for you not holding on to that anger, so that it doesn't stay in that sort of toxic space.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does it seem like you still live in some people that are abusive in some way.
Christina haro: No, actually, you know, that's one of the reasons I don't day to make don't I just kept I kept
Christina haro: I
Christina haro: I feel like if I do, they are going to ruin the relationship because I can't
Christina haro: I don't know, there's just, I get scared I get scared I get scared that if I date and I do meet somebody and if
Christina haro: Something happens like I don't know I guess our first problem or our first discussion. I'm going to, you know, I'm scared. I'm going to explode and I'm going to lay everything out, you know, I'm an anchor on the other person.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's not worried
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that was a really honest disclosure. Thank you for saying that out loud because I have wondered, because right it's this composed you present so composed, but it has a charge to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not having been able to sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Protect the self when you were 18 and all those years, and as a kid with your mom, I mean me to
Gwenevere Abriel: And so I think that is important, that one piece of it was putting it in writing to your mom but i think i think addressing
Gwenevere Abriel: The anger, letting some of that charge go i think that that might be a useful thing to do. And I think we will be able to pull that off in the work we're doing
Gwenevere Abriel: I just really invite you to
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know how to say it's like I don't ever see the anger in your app fact it's in your face. I see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sweet. I see sorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: A little anxious, but I won't ever see
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't ever see any of the anchor. Do you know it's okay that anger is an important emotion.
Christina haro: So my daughter tells me she says, Mom, how could just this outcome with things happen. You can cry and you go out
Christina haro: You don't get angry. You don't get angry at things you should get angry at this is if I was you. I'd be angry and I tell her I don't know. I told her I just thought I. That's how I grew up. Maybe that's how I ended up. I think I feel myself from a lot of things by just smiling.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah well you can keep doing it. No, I'm not going to invite you to get rid of anything until we put other stuff in place. Okay, you can keep that smile appalling you want or as little as you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want you to feel like you don't have that protective armor. Okay. But there's some real vitality in what anchor does right. It exists to protect you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the answers are easily found in psychology to say if you'd gotten angry with your mother, you might have been
Gwenevere Abriel: Or hurt bad worse. So it was smart, and it was intuitive and it was instinctual. And it was adaptive
Gwenevere Abriel: And we're not saying get rid of the skill of adaptation and smiling, what we're suggesting is that you balance it out with some of those other emotions to
Gwenevere Abriel: That anger. That's almost turned inward. Like, that's what that looks like. That's kind of what depression is it's, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of anger turned towards and against itself.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it can get pretty bad and pretty dark
Gwenevere Abriel: So one piece was this this journaling or this letter that you wrote
Gwenevere Abriel: Why don't we try a little bit in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: A little expression of some some anger. I promise I won't tell anybody going to tell you your daughters, but why don't you just just squeak out a little one.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you might might be angry about something you might resent I promise I'm not gonna say anything, but I'm just going to validate it.
Christina haro: So something I'd be angry about in the past or the present.
Gwenevere Abriel: Honestly, it just doesn't matter any which one that came to mind truly
Christina haro: Angry at my dad.
Christina haro: Very good.
Christina haro: He never did. He did it set up for me. Yeah.
Christina haro: It was worth. He was more scared of my ball by anything. I don't know, but
Christina haro: You know, I always
Christina haro: I said this.
Christina haro: Think about my dad in a telling God. What the hell is wrong with you. Why did you say so you go
Christina haro: You go
Christina haro: Ahead stick up for me.
Christina haro: No, he
Christina haro: Didn't tell you
Christina haro: This
Christina haro: I do, I do get angry, I get angry at my kids evil, I get upset you know
Christina haro: Just like I told my daughter. The other day because her mother daughter don't get along. I told her this is my down house. And if you don't like it, just don't come. It's that simple. You don't have to be here.
Christina haro: You don't have to come in here. You know, I told her you know this simple until I had four kids. I said login for kids. And I'm going to take care of. I said, I have to be there for all of you guys. I said, I just can't pick one and and support one and support the others.
Christina haro: You know I do. I do get angry, I get angry know there's times I probably get too angry and I catch myself but you know I'm not out of time. I kept myself getting angry, but I don't get to the abusive and, you know, raising my voice to me is angry.
Okay.
Christina haro: I've never, you know, I've always told my kids. If you ever see me getting ugly and abusive, like, you know, you've seen before, like my mom is stuff. I said, then I want you to tell me, but
Christina haro: I don't need been angry is raising my voice or slamming the door. You know what I mean.
Christina haro: There's never been an ugly side to me. I don't think
Christina haro: But angry yeah I
Christina haro: I've heard with my mom and I'm angry at my dad because you know he didn't stand up for me.
Christina haro: You know,
Christina haro: He would tell me, is your mom's crazy your one screen on this.
Christina haro: Go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not enough. That's not enough.
Christina haro: It wasn't even
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: My guess is
Gwenevere Abriel: That your dad probably grew up in a similar environment. My guess is that he had a family upbringing. That was similar. And then he his ability to tolerate that kind of behavior was familiar to him and it got passed down to another generation onto your generation.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's stopping with you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Christina haro: And I tell you
Christina haro: You know I never
Christina haro: hardly expect my kids say a spanking you know know
Christina haro: As always,
Christina haro: You know, my kids to tell you if they could tell you the topic to talk to you. They tell you
Christina haro: As a very chill mother.
Christina haro: You know, but then again you know I did discipline and they knew it. You know I discipline, but not in an abusive right now. We told myself I was never going to be like that.
Christina haro: And maybe that's one of the reasons I walk around with a smile on my face because I don't want them to see that side of me know or I don't want anybody to see that, you know,
Christina haro: Angry cited me maybe, I don't know, but
Gwenevere Abriel: What if we, what if we looked at at anchor a little differently. You know, that's
Gwenevere Abriel: What's your, what's your mother did was was abuse. Right. That was emotional and physical abuse anger. You want it to.
Gwenevere Abriel: To represent what what precious thing it's protecting me needed in order to protect right the precious inside of us. So in other words,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know if dad represents like this sort of failure to protect you. Your mother failed to but this failure to protect you know actually what dad needed was some anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: To protect you. And so you're absorbing sort of that same modeling inside yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know psychology has this interest psychic ego states, you know, and so it's it's almost as if you've absorbed that passive Father also. And what's needed is not rage what's needed is firm.
Gwenevere Abriel: And consistency. We're not saying that anger is this ugliness anger is it, it means it's showing up to protect
Gwenevere Abriel: And I don't think in and of itself, it's a bad thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: I think you mentioned one time.
Gwenevere Abriel: On that one of your daughters.
Gwenevere Abriel: You had wondered if you're chill parenting contributed to maybe her sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Not, I don't know how you worded it
Gwenevere Abriel: That Kareena maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: More something more or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: But less of the chill. I can't remember how you
Rap
Christina haro: And then you know i i look at her and, you know,
Christina haro: Just living with her dad and her dad is the the abusive husband. The one I told you about. And, you know, she
Christina haro: I don't know. I didn't really grow up with him. So they she started having a relationship with have probably when she was probably Gavin 12 more hurt than my son, and it's weird because she you know she pulled towards him, and she wanted her death so
Christina haro: You know it through the years. She ran back to that run back to that ran back to that and you know he
Christina haro: I don't know he he is not how to tell you
Christina haro: He's not all in his right tenses.
Christina haro: Yeah, so he's got a new wife and stuff and you know her step mom to teach me and her, you know, I know her. We talked and everything on the phone, we get along great. And
Christina haro: She's just, I don't know, to, to me, she was. She's over there. She's like a little girl with her daddy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I remember she said it's manipulative. It's unfortunate.
Christina haro: She's coming back and she she she's already telling me you know I hate being over here. You know, I can't stand there, I want to come home and and it's just it's just all over again.
Christina haro: So she's doing every two years. She does the same little thing, this will come over here until
So I'd say around
Gwenevere Abriel: Skill that might be needed with her might be
Gwenevere Abriel: Really distinguishing how she's saying things to really holding her accountable to the content of what she's saying. So there's a process. There's our tone.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is that style of communication. That's all in this category of process meaning body language tone, how we phrase a sentence. And then there's content. And so it's just
Gwenevere Abriel: Well Kareena. I wonder what she'll do with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see what your normal way I think typically is to take it on as if it's your problem to solve. Finding a way we'll get there if you want to go that route is to turn it around just Kareena. It sounds like you've got some challenges and living here and wonder how you'll solve it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, that's not normally your style. Right. You would take it on and feel what she's feeling and feel like the maybe some mixture of sadness and resentment, maybe like it's not my problem. But really, not knowing what to do with it but truly, it is for them to work out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we can say it. You can put, put it on the shoulders and where they belong, not on your shoulders, but on hers. That would be challenging. Let me know how I can help.
Gwenevere Abriel: Great Kareena like I know it's a challenge coming out here. It sounds like you're you're already started struggling with it and let me know how I can help. So
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just take a minute and
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's schedule another appointment.
Christina haro: I thought we had to do separate Masons.
Gwenevere Abriel: We do at 7am we got it. Yep. May six 7am
Christina haro: My
Gwenevere Abriel: Next client just came in, I, I'm really glad you're I'm glad you showed up today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Got it. You want to name sort of unpack a couple of things. And let's keep
Gwenevere Abriel: It let's keep it going. Maybe by next time right on the second. Let's see if we can maybe do some some processing up maybe one of those pieces, whether it's around
Gwenevere Abriel: With dad maybe maybe it'll be around. Dad, something like that or or your x. Let's pick a target. And let's see if we can. Let's do some end our processing with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to send a message, right, that you were here to dr off okay so
Gwenevere Abriel: Christina.
Whoops point. I really wanted Christina.
Gwenevere Abriel: He
Gwenevere Abriel: Attended this morning. Okay, so I get to see you on Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, well, fantastic. I will see you then begin to you.
Christina haro: Have a week.
To